README.md, before:

# RanGen - module to generate different type of data.

## install
```
$ npm install --save rangen
```

## usage
```javascript
var rg = require('rangen');
rg.id(); // RhyDMHO
```

## methods






### id
Generate random string, using one of the character set listed below. Own set can be also provided as third parameter. 

```javascript
var id = rg.id(length, charset, string); //W6hOC2N
```

Character sets:

1. **n** - '0123456789'
2. **a** - 'abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyzABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ'
3. **c** - '_-~!@#$%^&*()|}{?></'
4. **an** - 'abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyzABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ0123456789'
5. **id** - 'abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyzABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ_-'
6. **m** - 'abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyzABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ0123456789_-~!@#$%^&*()|}{?></'
7. **o** - pass your own string as third parameter

| param  | default value |
| :------: | :--------------: |
| _length_ (optional)  | 7 |
| _charset_ (optional) | 'id' |
| _string_ (optional)  | |







### number
Generate random number in specific range. 
```javascript
var num = rg.num(min, max); //864
```

| param  | default value |
| :------: | :--------------: |
| _min_ (optional) | 0 |
| _max_ (optional) | 9999 |







### user
Generate random user data using https://randomuser.me
```javascript
rangen.user(params, cb);
```

Can take a callback:
```javascript
rg.user(function(err, user){
  if(!err){
    console.log(user);
  }
});
```

Or return promise:
```javascript
rg.user({promise: true})
  .then(function (response) {
    console.log(response)
  })
  .catch(function (response) {
    console.log(response)
  });
```

The following parameters can be passed:

```javascript
var params = {
  promise: true, // return promise. Default - false. 
  count: 5, // number of users that should be generated (1 - 100). Default - 1
  gender: 'male' // gender of users ('male', 'female'). Random by default. 
}
```

Results:
```javascript
[{
  "user": {
    "gender": "male",
    "name": {"title": "mr", "first": "joaquin", "last": "benitez"},
    "location": {"street": "3725 calle de Ángel garcía", "city": "sevilla", "state": "país vasco", "zip": "70927"},
    "email": "joaquin.benitez47@example.com",
    "username": "brownrabbit250",
    "password": "robert",
    "salt": "8Bos5xJa",
    "md5": "dd502a8586540bfa95c1fa08a04270ca",
    "sha1": "a0f29e6c75cc27ea6afe54bcf1b003679bb33e5c",
    "sha256": "e0f7cc8b4ca165cb15e1d71c92c8f96e0d18d1c537d0cf720eb90762a2851b03",
    "registered": "1143822952",
    "dob": "558130886",
    "phone": "956-784-995",
    "cell": "688-607-191",
    "DNI": "02142296-Z",
    "picture": {
      "large": "http://api.randomuser.me/portraits/men/94.jpg",
      "medium": "http://api.randomuser.me/portraits/med/men/94.jpg",
      "thumbnail": "http://api.randomuser.me/portraits/thumb/men/94.jpg"
    },
    "version": "0.6",
    "nationality": "ES"
  }, "seed": "0ef2a0462d7044a301"
}, ...]

```







### image
Generate set of photos provided by https://500px.com.
Photos are copyrighted! For reference only. Check [500px terms](https://500px.com/terms) before using.

```javascript
rg.image(params, cb);
```

Can take a callback:
```javascript
rg.image(function(err, images){
  if(!err){
    console.log(images);
  }
});
```

Or return promise:
```javascript
rg.image({promise: true})
  .then(function (response) {
    console.log(response)
  })
  .catch(function (response) {
    console.log(response)
  });
```

The following optional parameters can be passed:

```javascript
var params = {
  promise: true, // Return promise. Default - false.
  image_size: 600, // Image size. Default - 2
  rpp: 2, // Number of images. Default - 20
  feature: 'highest_rated', // Photo stream to be retrieved. Default - 'popular'
  only: 'Animals' // Name of the category to return photos from
  // ... 
}
```

Params can take standart 500px parameters. Check [500px API](https://github.com/500px/api-documentation/blob/master/endpoints/photo/GET_photos.md) for more details.

Results:

```javascript
[{
  "id": 105106007,
  "user_id": 1913159,
  "name": "Fight between rainbows",
  "description": null,
  "camera": "Canon EOS 7D",
  "lens": "EF400mm f/2.8L IS USM",
  "focal_length": "400",
  "iso": "200",
  "shutter_speed": "1/3200",
  "aperture": "2.8",
  "times_viewed": 29268,
  "rating": 75,
  "status": 1,
  "created_at": "2015-04-15T10:48:37-04:00",
  "category": 11,
  "location": null,
  "latitude": null,
  "longitude": null,
  "taken_at": "2013-05-26T15:16:02-04:00",
  "hi_res_uploaded": 0,
  "for_sale": false,
  "width": 4308,
  "height": 2872,
  "votes_count": 2311,
  "favorites_count": 1480,
  "comments_count": 190,
  "nsfw": false,
  "sales_count": 0,
  "for_sale_date": null,
  "highest_rating": 99.9,
  "highest_rating_date": "2015-04-16T08:44:17-04:00",
  "license_type": 0,
  "converted": 27,
  "collections_count": 0,
  "crop_version": 6,
  "privacy": false,
  "image_url": "https://drscdn.500px.org/photo/105106007/w%3D600_h%3D600/ef557d0965a18ce8a04d612ed7c884bc?v=6",
  "images": [{
    "size": 600,
    "url": "https://drscdn.500px.org/photo/105106007/w%3D600_h%3D600/ef557d0965a18ce8a04d612ed7c884bc?v=6",
    "https_url": "https://drscdn.500px.org/photo/105106007/w%3D600_h%3D600/ef557d0965a18ce8a04d612ed7c884bc?v=6",
    "format": "jpeg"
  }],
  "url": "/photo/105106007/fight-between-rainbows-by-marco-redaelli",
  "positive_votes_count": 2311,
  "converted_bits": 27,
  "image_format": "jpeg",
  "user": {
    "id": 1913159,
    "username": "MarcoRedaelli",
    "firstname": "Marco",
    "lastname": "Redaelli",
    "city": "Busnago",
    "country": "Italy",
    "usertype": 0,
    "fullname": "Marco Redaelli",
    "userpic_url": "https://pacdn.500px.org/1913159/e190e848e7e54255510dc1fd1518bc935328c7b1/1.jpg?5",
    "userpic_https_url": "https://pacdn.500px.org/1913159/e190e848e7e54255510dc1fd1518bc935328c7b1/1.jpg?5",
    "cover_url": "https://pacdn.500px.org/1913159/e190e848e7e54255510dc1fd1518bc935328c7b1/cover_2048.jpg?12",
    "upgrade_status": 0,
    "store_on": true,
    "affection": 233267
  }
}, ...]
```

## Todo:

### Random text fragments

### Random youtube video

Commit message:

use promise by default, callback if func privided

README.md, after:

# RanGen - module to generate different type of data.

## install
```
$ npm install --save rangen
```

## usage
```javascript
var rg = require('rangen');
rg.id(); // RhyDMHO
```

## methods






### id
Generate random string, using one of the character set listed below. Own set can be also provided as third parameter. 

```javascript
var id = rg.id(length, charset, string); //W6hOC2N
```

Character sets:

1. **n** - '0123456789'
2. **a** - 'abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyzABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ'
3. **c** - '_-~!@#$%^&*()|}{?></'
4. **an** - 'abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyzABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ0123456789'
5. **id** - 'abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyzABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ_-'
6. **m** - 'abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyzABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ0123456789_-~!@#$%^&*()|}{?></'
7. **o** - pass your own string as third parameter

| param  | default value |
| :------: | :--------------: |
| _length_ (optional)  | 7 |
| _charset_ (optional) | 'id' |
| _string_ (optional)  | |







### number
Generate random number in specific range. 
```javascript
var num = rg.num(min, max); //864
```

| param  | default value |
| :------: | :--------------: |
| _min_ (optional) | 0 |
| _max_ (optional) | 9999 |







### user
Generate random user data using https://randomuser.me
```javascript
rg.user(params, cb);
```

Can take a callback:
```javascript
rg.user(function(err, user){
  if(!err){
    console.log(user);
  }
});
```

Or return promise:
```javascript
rg.user()
  .then(function (response) {
    console.log(response)
  })
  .catch(function (response) {
    console.log(response)
  });
```

The following parameters can be passed:

```javascript
var params = {
  count: 5, // number of users that should be generated (1 - 100). Default - 1
  gender: 'male' // gender of users ('male', 'female'). Random by default. 
}
```

First argument can be an integer, if you need to pass count only
```javascript
rg.user(5, cb);
```

Results:
```javascript
[{
  "user": {
    "gender": "male",
    "name": {"title": "mr", "first": "joaquin", "last": "benitez"},
    "location": {"street": "3725 calle de Ángel garcía", "city": "sevilla", "state": "país vasco", "zip": "70927"},
    "email": "joaquin.benitez47@example.com",
    "username": "brownrabbit250",
    "password": "robert",
    "salt": "8Bos5xJa",
    "md5": "dd502a8586540bfa95c1fa08a04270ca",
    "sha1": "a0f29e6c75cc27ea6afe54bcf1b003679bb33e5c",
    "sha256": "e0f7cc8b4ca165cb15e1d71c92c8f96e0d18d1c537d0cf720eb90762a2851b03",
    "registered": "1143822952",
    "dob": "558130886",
    "phone": "956-784-995",
    "cell": "688-607-191",
    "DNI": "02142296-Z",
    "picture": {
      "large": "http://api.randomuser.me/portraits/men/94.jpg",
      "medium": "http://api.randomuser.me/portraits/med/men/94.jpg",
      "thumbnail": "http://api.randomuser.me/portraits/thumb/men/94.jpg"
    },
    "version": "0.6",
    "nationality": "ES"
  }, "seed": "0ef2a0462d7044a301"
}, ...]

```







### image
Generate set of photos provided by https://500px.com.
Photos are copyrighted! For reference only. Check [500px terms](https://500px.com/terms) before using.

```javascript
rg.image(params, cb);
```

Can take a callback:
```javascript
rg.image(function(err, images){
  if(!err){
    console.log(images);
  }
});
```

Or return promise:
```javascript
rg.image()
  .then(function (response) {
    console.log(response)
  })
  .catch(function (response) {
    console.log(response)
  });
```

The following optional parameters can be passed:

```javascript
var params = {
  image_size: 600, // Image size. Default - 2
  rpp: 2, // Number of images. Default - 20
  feature: 'highest_rated', // Photo stream to be retrieved. Default - 'popular'
  only: 'Animals' // Name of the category to return photos from
  // ... 
}
```

Params can take native 500px parameters. Check [500px API](https://github.com/500px/api-documentation/blob/master/endpoints/photo/GET_photos.md) for more details.

Results:

```javascript
[{
  "id": 105106007,
  "user_id": 1913159,
  "name": "Fight between rainbows",
  "description": null,
  "camera": "Canon EOS 7D",
  "lens": "EF400mm f/2.8L IS USM",
  "focal_length": "400",
  "iso": "200",
  "shutter_speed": "1/3200",
  "aperture": "2.8",
  "times_viewed": 29268,
  "rating": 75,
  "status": 1,
  "created_at": "2015-04-15T10:48:37-04:00",
  "category": 11,
  "location": null,
  "latitude": null,
  "longitude": null,
  "taken_at": "2013-05-26T15:16:02-04:00",
  "hi_res_uploaded": 0,
  "for_sale": false,
  "width": 4308,
  "height": 2872,
  "votes_count": 2311,
  "favorites_count": 1480,
  "comments_count": 190,
  "nsfw": false,
  "sales_count": 0,
  "for_sale_date": null,
  "highest_rating": 99.9,
  "highest_rating_date": "2015-04-16T08:44:17-04:00",
  "license_type": 0,
  "converted": 27,
  "collections_count": 0,
  "crop_version": 6,
  "privacy": false,
  "image_url": "https://drscdn.500px.org/photo/105106007/w%3D600_h%3D600/ef557d0965a18ce8a04d612ed7c884bc?v=6",
  "images": [{
    "size": 600,
    "url": "https://drscdn.500px.org/photo/105106007/w%3D600_h%3D600/ef557d0965a18ce8a04d612ed7c884bc?v=6",
    "https_url": "https://drscdn.500px.org/photo/105106007/w%3D600_h%3D600/ef557d0965a18ce8a04d612ed7c884bc?v=6",
    "format": "jpeg"
  }],
  "url": "/photo/105106007/fight-between-rainbows-by-marco-redaelli",
  "positive_votes_count": 2311,
  "converted_bits": 27,
  "image_format": "jpeg",
  "user": {
    "id": 1913159,
    "username": "MarcoRedaelli",
    "firstname": "Marco",
    "lastname": "Redaelli",
    "city": "Busnago",
    "country": "Italy",
    "usertype": 0,
    "fullname": "Marco Redaelli",
    "userpic_url": "https://pacdn.500px.org/1913159/e190e848e7e54255510dc1fd1518bc935328c7b1/1.jpg?5",
    "userpic_https_url": "https://pacdn.500px.org/1913159/e190e848e7e54255510dc1fd1518bc935328c7b1/1.jpg?5",
    "cover_url": "https://pacdn.500px.org/1913159/e190e848e7e54255510dc1fd1518bc935328c7b1/cover_2048.jpg?12",
    "upgrade_status": 0,
    "store_on": true,
    "affection": 233267
  }
}, ...]
```

## Todo:

### Random text fragments

### Random youtube video
